CNV-52855: UDN localnet (#93859)
openshift/openshift-docs: virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc

endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa-hcp[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa-hcp[]
You can connect a virtual machine (VM) to an OVN-Kubernetes `layer2` secondary network by using the CLI. 

A `layer2` topology connects workloads by a cluster-wide logical switch. The OVN-Kubernetes Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin uses the Geneve (Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation) protocol to create an overlay network between nodes. You can use this overlay network to connect VMs on different nodes, without having to configure any additional physical networking infrastructure.

[NOTE]
====

> An OVN-Kubernetes secondary network is compatible with the xref:../../networking/multiple_networks/secondary_networks/configuring-multi-network-policy.adoc#compatibility-with-multi-network-policy_configuring-additional-network[multi-network policy API] which provides the `MultiNetworkPolicy` custom resource definition (CRD) to control traffic flow to and from VMs. You can use the `ipBlock` attribute to define network policy ingress and egress rules for specific CIDR blocks.

Reviewer: this is unrelated, but upon reading this well crafted note, I realize it can be slightly improved:
```suggestion
An OVN-Kubernetes secondary network is compatible with the xref:../../networking/multiple_networks/secondary_networks/configuring-multi-network-policy.adoc#compatibility-with-multi-network-policy_configuring-additional-network[multi-network policy API] which provides the `MultiNetworkPolicy` custom resource definition (CRD) to control traffic flow to and from VMs. You must use the `ipBlock` attribute to define network policy ingress and egress rules for specific CIDR blocks - pod or namespace selectors cannot be used for virtualization workloads.
```

====
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa-hcp[]

To configure an OVN-Kubernetes `layer2` secondary network and attach a VM to that network, perform the following steps:

. xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network[Configure an OVN-Kubernetes `layer2` secondary network] by creating a network attachment definition (NAD).

> . xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#attaching-vm-to-ovn-secondary-nw[Connect the VM to the OVN-Kubernetes `layer2` secondary network] by adding the network details to the VM specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#attaching-vm-to-ovn-secondary-nw[Connect the VM to the OVN-Kubernetes layer 2 secondary network].
```
No backticks in titles; I would also skip the words in the link--that is already a bit erratic and definitely not supported in DITA.

[id="creating-ovn-nad_{context}"]
== Creating an OVN-Kubernetes layer 2 NAD

> You can create an OVN-Kubernetes network attachment definition (NAD) for `layer2` topology by using the {product-title} web console or the CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create an OVN-Kubernetes network attachment definition (NAD) for the layer 2 network topology by using the {product-title} web console or the CLI.
```

include::modules/virt-creating-layer2-nad-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

> //ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa-hcp[]

Reviewer 2: Confirm with the service delivery team that this content belongs there, please

Author: It doesn't
